时间过得很快，当我还在怀念夏日姑娘们的短裙时，秋风已起，落木萧下，虽然即使飞雪连天的时候也可以看见穿短裙的姑娘，但不管她穿得再怎么风骚，也穿不出夏天的味道。

每到天气转凉的时候，我就会莫名地忧伤起来，可能是缘于骨子里残存的诗意。关于诗意这件事我很少提起，只在朋友聚会场面沉闷时偶尔说说，立刻引得众人哄堂大笑，气氛马上活跃起来。诗意还是有用处的，我很欣慰。

这次忧伤得比较彻底，因为今年听得最多的词就是“青春”“梦想”什么的，让我这个没有青春没有梦想的人情何以堪。其实我也是有追求的—我就想有吃有喝到处闲逛，但把这个说成梦想总觉得有点底气不足。

原来我一直是个自我感觉良好的人，即使明知年岁渐长我也认为只要有颗年轻的心自己就永远25岁，直到有一天，我看到一个很心动的姑娘，心里第一个念头竟然是：“这个姑娘对我来说会不会有点小?”那一刻，我才绝望地发现自己真的老了。

“The Rules For Being Human 1. You will receive a body. You may like it or hate it, but it will be yours for the entire period of this time around. 2. You will learn lessons. You are enrolled in a full-time informal school called Life. Each day in this school you will have the opportunity to learn lessons. You may like the lessons or think them irrelevant and stupid. 3. There are no mistakes, only lessons. Growth is a process of trial and error: Experimentation. The “failed” experiments are as much a part of the process as the experiment that ultimately “works.” 4. A lesson is repeated until learned. A lesson will be presented to you in various forms until you have learned it. When you have learned it, you can then go on to the next lesson. 5. Learning lessons does not end. There is no part of life that does not contain its lessons. If you are alive, there are lessons to be learned. 6. “There” is no better than “here.” When your “there” has become a “here,” you will simply obtain another “there” that will again look better than “here.” 7. Others are merely mirrors of you. You cannot love or hate something about another person unless it reflects something you love or hate about yourself. 8. What you make of your life is up to you. You have all the tools and resources you need. What you do with them is up to you. The choice is yours. 9. Your answers lie inside you. The answers to Life’s questions lie inside you. All you need to do is look, listen and trust. 10. You will forget all this. Chérie Carter-Scott”
― Jack Canfield, Chicken Soup for the Soul: Stories to Open the Heart and Rekindle the Spirit
